feat: Editorial review: Add content for overlay and discrete animation features (#29943)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/transition/index.md

/* property name | duration | easing function | delay */
transition: margin-right 4s ease-in-out 1s;

/* property name | duration | behavior */
transition: display 4s allow-discrete;

/* Apply to 2 properties */
transition:
  margin-right 4s,
  color 1s;

/* Apply to all changed properties */

> transition: all 0.5s ease-out allow-discrete;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
transition: all 0.5s ease-out allow-discrete;
transition: 200ms linear 50ms;
```

Reviewer: want to point out that `all` is not needed and delays are a thing.

Reviewer: Line 61 and 63 need help.

```md
The `transition` property is specified as one or more single-property transitions, separated by commas, or `none` for no transitions. Each single-property transition describes the transition that should be applied to a single property (or the special value and default `all`). It includes:
```
if none is used, that is the only value that can be used. `all` (with or without the keyword present) can be used as the property of a single transition in the list of comma-separated transition, if it is the first value (and the subsequent single values override the other values withing that shorthand.

transition: unset;
```

The `transition` property value is specified as one of the following:

- The special value `none`, which specifies that no transitions will occur on this element. This is the default value.
- One or more single-property transitions, separated by commas.

> - One single-property transition, which is structured as described below, except that the special value `all` is used in place of a property value. This specifies that the transition will be applied to all properties that change as the element changes state.

Author: Wow, I never knew that. I have updated the text to suit.

  > **Note:** If you exclude the property value in the single-property transition, then a value of `all` will be inferred and the specified transition will still apply to all changing properties.

Each single-property transition describes the transition that should be applied to a single property. It includes:

> - zero or one {{cssxref("&lt;custom-ident&gt;")}} value representing the property to which the transition should apply.

Reviewer: Should we do this change? Or add a "if zero values are provided, the default value is used. see formal syntax"? Or add the defaults to all of these bullet points?

```
- The [<custom-ident>] value representing the property to which the transition should apply.
- The [<easing-function>] value representing the easing function to use
- Up to two [<time>] values. The first value is parsed as the [transition-duration], the second value being the [transition-delay]. 
- A [<transition-behavior-value>] declaring whether to start transitions for properties whose animation behavior is [discrete] with `allow-discrete` or not, with `normal`.
```
or
```
- The [<custom-ident>] value representing the property to which the transition should apply. If omitted, value defaults to `all`.
- The [<easing-function>] value representing the easing function to use. If omitted, value defaults to `ease`.
- Up to two [<time>] values. The first value is parsed as the [transition-duration], the second value being the [transition-delay]. If omitted, the values default to `0s`, meaning the transition is immediate and lasts 0s, meaning the animation is not visible.
- A [<transition-behavior-value>] declaring whether to start transitions for properties whose animation behavior is [discrete] with `allow-discrete` or not, with `normal`. If omitted, defaults to `normal`.
```

> - zero or one {{cssxref("&lt;custom-ident&gt;")}} value representing the property to which the transition should apply.

Author: It's written differently now anyway. I'd rather not get too deep into rewriting this entire section, as it is mostly nothing to do with my PR.

- zero or one {{cssxref("&lt;easing-function&gt;")}} value representing the easing function to use
- zero, one, or two {{cssxref("&lt;time&gt;")}} values. The first value that can be parsed as a time is assigned to the {{cssxref("transition-duration")}}, and the second value that can be parsed as a time is assigned to {{cssxref("transition-delay")}}.
- zero or one value declaring whether to start transitions for properties whose animation behavior is [discrete](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_animated_properties#discrete):

  - the keyword `allow-discrete`

>   - the keyword `normal`

Reviewer: actually, provided alternate suggestion

transition: unset;
```

The `transition` property value is specified as one of the following:

- The special value `none`, which specifies that no transitions will occur on this element. This is the default value.
- One or more single-property transitions, separated by commas.

> Each single-property transition describes the transition that should be applied to a single property or all properties. It includes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each single-property transition describes the transition that should be applied to a single property or `all` properties. It includes:
```

Author: I disagree with this change suggestion. In this case, "all" is part of English language, not a code term.

- zero or one value representing the property or properties to which the transition should apply. This can be set as:
  - A {{cssxref("&lt;custom-ident&gt;")}} representing a single property.
  - The special value `all`, which specifies that the transition will be applied to all properties that change as the element changes state.
  - No value, in which case a value of `all` will be inferred and the specified transition will still apply to all changing properties.
- zero or one {{cssxref("&lt;easing-function&gt;")}} value representing the easing function to use
- zero, one, or two {{cssxref("&lt;time&gt;")}} values. The first value that can be parsed as a time is assigned to the {{cssxref("transition-duration")}}, and the second value that can be parsed as a time is assigned to {{cssxref("transition-delay")}}.

> - zero or one value declaring whether to start transitions for properties whose animation behavior is [discrete](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_animated_properties#discrete). This can be one of:
> 
>   - the keyword `allow-discrete`
>   - the keyword `normal`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- zero or one value declaring whether to start transitions for properties whose animation behavior is [discrete](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_animated_properties#discrete). The value, if present, is either the keyword `allow-discrete` or the keyword `normal`.
```

Author: Sounds good; updated

If you specify `all` as the transition property for one single-property transition, but then specify subsequent single-property transitions with {{cssxref("&lt;custom-ident&gt;")}} values, those subsequent transitions will override the first one. For example:

```css
transition:
  all 200ms,
  opacity 400ms;
```

> In this case, {{cssxref("opacity")}} will transition with a duration of 400ms, but all other properties that change as the element changes state will transition with a duration of 200ms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, all the properties that change as the element changes state will transition with a duration of 200ms, except {{cssxref("opacity")}} , which will transition with a duration of 400ms.
```

Author: updated

- zero or one {{cssxref("&lt;easing-function&gt;")}} value representing the easing function to use
- zero, one, or two {{cssxref("&lt;time&gt;")}} values. The first value that can be parsed as a time is assigned to the {{cssxref("transition-duration")}}, and the second value that can be parsed as a time is assigned to {{cssxref("transition-delay")}}.

> - zero or one value declaring whether to start transitions for properties whose animation behavior is [discrete](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_animated_properties#discrete):

Reviewer: line 68, the keyword `all`, should have a note that if no value is included, it defaults to `all`.

Author: I included just such a note earlier on.

## Examples

> > **Note:** See our [Using CSS transitions](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_transitions/Using_CSS_transitions) guide for more `transition` examples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** See [Using CSS transitions](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_transitions/Using_CSS_transitions) for more `transition` examples.
```

Author: done

## Examples

> > **Note:** See [Using CSS transitions](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_transitions/Using_CSS_transitions) for more `transition` examples.

Reviewer: omit this note and add to see also (keeping the module landing page)

Author: done

}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample('Basic_example', 600, 100)}}

> ### Transitioning top layer elements

Reviewer: the goal of this page is teaching the shorthand. this example doesn't do that. I suggest removing this page from the PR. If you want to include this, create a new PR with an example that shows the pre- state of a transition and a post-state of a transition, you could even include different values in the pre and post to show that transitions in the reverse direction can have different values. You can even add a start-style to show that you can transition from and to something, and then when it reverts the "from" is not the same than the initial from, which is the start style, if that makes sense.

Author: I've just removed this section for now.

## See also

> - [CSS transitions](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_transitions)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [CSS transitions](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_transitions) module
```

Author: done
